/**
\page ves-lugano2017-metad MARVEL school 2017 tutorial: Metadynamics

\section ves-lugano2017-metad-aims Aims

\section ves-lugano2017-metad-lo Learning Outcomes

Once this tutorial is completed students will learn to:

- Perform metadynamics simulations using PLUMED 2 and LAMMPS
- Construct a bias potential on 1 and 2 collective variables (CVs)
- Assess the convergence of the free energy surface
- Distinguish between good and bad CVs
- Reweight the simulation on CVs different from the ones used for biasing
- Reweight with more than one bias potential
- Restart a simulation
- Use multiple walkers to improve the exploration of CV space

\section ves-lugano2017-metad-resources Resources

The <a href="tutorial-resources-ves/ves-lugano2017-metad.tar.gz"
download="ves-lugano2017-metad.tar.gz"> tarball </a> for this project contains the following files:

- file1.ext : some file
- file2.ext : some file

\section ves-lugano2017-metad-somesection Instructions

\subsection ves-lugano2017-metad-subsection-1 The system

We consider the association/dissociation of NaCl in acqueous solution. We will
use the potential developed in ref. ...  for NaCl and TIP3P water with
parameters corrected to be used with long-range Coulomb solvers. 

\subsection ves-lugano2017-metad-subsection-2 Construct a bias potential on the distance Na-Cl

We first construct a bias potential on the distance Na-Cl. We will limit the
exploration of the CV space by introducing an upper wall.

Of course this will have to be corrected to calculate ensemble averages.

It is possible to try different bias factor to check the effect that it has in
the trajectory and the effective fes.

\subsection ves-lugano2017-metad-subsection-3 Assess convergence

One way to identify if a WT-MetaD simulation has converged is observing the
estimated free energy surface at different times.   

It is also possible to track convergence by controlling the evolution of some
quantity connected to the free energy surface. In this case we will calculate
the dissociation barrier.

Reweighting the simulation on the same CV that was used for biasing can also
be used as a test of convergence. We will show that in the next section.

\subsection ves-lugano2017-metad-subsection-4 Reweight the simulation

We first reweight the simulation on the distance Na-Cl, the same CV used for
biasing. We compare the estimations of the free energy surface obtained from
sum_hills and from reweighting. The weights employed in the reweighting should
take into account the upper wall bias.

We can obtain important information of the system by reweighting on 2 CVs: The
distance Na-Cl and the coordination of Na with O.

The plot provides important information of the association mechanism. In the
dissociated state, Na can have a coordination of 5 or 6, though it is more
likely to find a coordination number of 6. However, in order to associate Na
must have a coordination with O of 5. In the associated state Na can have a
coordination of 3, 4 or 5.

\subsection ves-lugano2017-metad-subsection-5 Construct a bias potential on the coordination Na-O

We construct a bias potential on the coordination Na-0.

The exploration of the CV space is not good since there is a slow degree of
freedom that we are not biasing: the distance Na-Cl.

*/

link: @subpage ves-lugano2017-metad

description: Some good description of the tutorial

additional-files: ves-lugano2017-metad
